# Books published
<dl><dt><strong>Data Science for Teams: 20 Lessons from the Fieldwork</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou.<br /><a href="https://shop.elsevier.com/books/data-science-for-teams/georgiou/978-0-443-36406-8" target="_blank">Book published by Elsevier / Morgan-Kaufmann.</a> Managing human resources, time allocation, and risk management in R&D projects, particularly in Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning/Data Analysis, poses unique challenges. Key areas such as model design, experimental planning, system integration, and evaluation protocols require specialized attention. In most cases, the research tends to focus primarily on one of the two main aspects: either the technical aspect of AI/ML/DA or the teams’ effort, or the typical management aspect and team members’ roles in such a project. Both are equally import for successful real-world R&D, but they are rarely examined together and tightly correlated. Data Science for Teams: 20 Lessons from the Fieldwork addresses the issue of how to deal with all these aspects within the context of real-world R&D projects, which are a distinct class of their own. The book shows the everyday effort within the team, and the adhesive substance in between that makes everything work. The core material in this book is organized over four main Parts with five Lessons each. Author Harris Georgiou goes into the difficulties progressively and dives into the challenges one step at a time, using a typical timeline profile of an R&D project as a loose template. From the formation of a team to the delivery of final results, whether it is a feasibility study or an integrated system, the content of each Lesson revisits hints, ideas and events from real-world projects in these fields, ranging from medical diagnostics and big data analytics to air traffic control and industrial process optimization. The scope of DA and ML is the underlying context for all, but most importantly the main focus is the team: how its work is organized, executed, adjusted, and optimized. Data Science for Teams presents a parallel narrative journey, with an imaginary team and project assignment as an example, running an R&D project from day one to its finish line. Every Lesson is explained and demonstrated within the team narrative, including personal hints and paradigms from real-world projects.<br /><a href="https://shop.elsevier.com/books/data-science-for-teams/georgiou/978-0-443-36406-8" target="_blank">Paperback ISBN: 9780443364068 - eBook ISBN: 9780443364075</a></dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Optimal testing strategies for infectious diseases</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou (in chapter).<br /><a href="https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-031-10031-4" target="_blank">Book published by Springer.</a> Screening tests for infectious diseases is a problem typically addressed in the field of Medicine and Epidemics. However, as the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic emerged, it became clear that there is no globally accepted strategy for optimizing such procedures, e.g. in international transportation and border checks, which policy makers can employ. In this study, the general problem of developing optimal testing strategies for infectious diseases is explored under the scope of Game Theory, sampling and estimation methods from classic Statistics, as well as Bayesian methods for the proper treatment of posterior updates, leading to the benefits of employing Machine Learning for data-driven structural risk minimization. Six main guidelines are established by this work, dictating estimated variance of prevalence and associated risk as the main minimization target, in terms of both a criterion for inflow quotas allocation between population groups, as well as optimal posterior updates via classic confidence intervals and Bayesian methods. As a result, it is established that minimum infection risk, not optimal resource allocation, is the real challenge and top priority in formalizing optimal screening strategies for such risk mitigation policies.<br />
In: “The Science behind the COVID Pandemic and Healthcare Technology Solutions”, pp. 145-170, Springer, 2022 - doi:10.1007/978-3-031-10031-4_8 (<a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-10031-4_8" target="_blank">Springer link</a>) – <a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7277665" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7277665</a>
</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Mobility analytics and COVID-19 in Greece</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou, C. Theodoridis, Y. Theodoridis (in chapter).<br /><a href="https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-031-10031-4" target="_blank">Book published by Springer.</a> This work is focused on multi-aspect analytics of epidemic data, using Greece as the use case for assessing the national outbreak and estimating the general trends and outlook of it since the beginning of the pandemic in early 2020 up to the end of 2020. Using methodologies from compartmentalized epidemic modelling, data analytics and machine learning, several insights are presented with regard to early tracking of the evolving outbreak, despite having to deal with data scarcity, inconsistencies and quality issues. It is intended to be used as a guideline for data-related challenges on producing actionable information to decision-makers during an active epidemic.<br />
In: “The Science behind the COVID Pandemic and Healthcare Technology Solutions”, pp. 305-327, Springer, 2022 - doi:10.1007/978-3-031-10031-4_15 (<a href="https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-10031-4_15" target="_blank">Springer link</a>) – <a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7277681" target="_blank">https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7277681</a>
</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Big Data Analytics for Time Critical Mobility Forecasting – From raw data to trajectory-oriented mobility analytics in the aviation and maritime domains (1st edition)</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou, P. Petrou, P. Tampakis, S. Sideridis, E. Chondrodima, N. Pelekis, Y. Theodoridis, et.al. (in chapter) <br /><a href="https://www.amazon.com/Analytics-Time-Critical-Mobility-Forecasting-Trajectory-Oriented/dp/3030451631" target="_blank">Book published by Springer.</a> Spatiotemporal mobility data has significant role and impact on the global economy and our everyday lives. The improvements along the last decades in terms of data management, planning of operations, security of operations, information provision to operators and end-users, has been driven by location-centred information. While a shift of paradigm regarding mobility data towards trajectory-oriented tasks is emerging, the ever-increasing volume of data emphasizes the need for advanced methods supporting detection and prediction of events and trajectories, supplemented by advanced visual analytic methods, over multiple heterogeneous, voluminous, fluctuating, and noisy data streams of moving entities. This book provides a comprehensive and detailed description of Big Data solutions towards activity detection and forecasting in very large numbers of moving entities spread across large geographical areas. Specifically, following a trajectory oriented approach, this book reports on state of the art methods for the detection and prediction of trajectories and important events related to moving entities, together with advanced visual analytics methods, over multiple heterogeneous, voluminous, fluctuating, and noisy data streams from moving entities, correlating them with data from archived data sources expressing, among others, entities’ characteristics, geographical information, mobility patterns, regulations and intentional data (e.g. planned routes), in a timely manner. Solutions provided are motivated, validated and evaluated in user-defined challenges focusing on increasing the safety, efficiency and economy of operations concerning moving entities in the Air-Traffic Management and Maritime domains.</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Urban Informatics – Visual Analytics for Characterizing Mobility Aspects of Urban Context (1st edition)</strong></dt><dd>G. Andrienko, N. Andrienko, F. Patterson, S. Chen, R. Weibel, H. Huang, C. Doulkeridis, H. Georgiou, N. Pelekis, Y. Theodoridis, et.al. (in chapter) <br /><a href="https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-981-15-8983-6">Book published by Springer (2020), ISBN: 978-981-15-8982-9.</a> The science of visual analytics (Thomas and Cook, 2005) develops principles, methods, and tools to enable synergistic work between humans and computers through interactive visual interfaces. Such interfaces support the unique capabilities of humans (such as the flexible application of prior knowledge and experiences, creative thinking, and insight) and couple these abilities with machines’ computational strengths, enabling the generation of new knowledge from large and complex data. In this chapter, we describe visual analytics approaches that are related to the study of urban mobility data and discuss how visual analytics can support analysis of such data and informed, justifiable decision making. We address different stages of the urban data science process, including data quality assessment, data transformation, exploration and analysis, and indicate possibilities for model building, evaluation, and refinement. We conclude this chapter with a summary of achievements, unsolved problems, and future research directions.</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Handbook on the Sociology of Artificial Intelligence (1st edition)</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou (in chapter) <br /><a href="#">"Human in the Loop: Alignment and Control in safety-critical and life-or-death decision-making by autonomous machines"</a>. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is perhaps the most challenging aspect of human civilization since the advent of the computer age. As it becomes “smarter”, it brings forward much more fundamental than simply technical problems to solve, which may include legal, ethical or even philosophical questions. In this chapter, the core issue of AI “alignment” is investigated under the scope of clarifying the boundaries between human and machine responsibilities, especially in the decision-making process within safety-critical applications. The current legislative status is briefly presented, primarily for the EU and USA, with the corresponding Acts regarding “safe” and “trustworthy” AI. Next, the subject of autonomous weapons systems (AWS) is explored, with special reference to the lethal ones (LAWS) that may target humans via completely internal decision-making loops. As an extension, the moral aspects of fully autonomous AI systems are discussed through the classic “trolley problem”, demonstrating how difficult it is to even formulate such tasks for designing AI. Finally, ten core principles of “aligned” AI are summarized and a few suggestions are discussed regarding how these principles may be incorporated in practice towards this direction. Springer, 2026 <em>(in press)</em>.</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Comprehensive Robotics for Extreme and Challenging Environments (1st edition)</strong></dt><dd>A. Kucukyilmaz, B. Varga, E. Crowe, M. Kyrarini, M. Chiou, H. Georgiou, H. Tugal (in chapter) <br /><a href="#">"Deployment-Level Evaluation of Semi-Autonomous Systems in Challenging Human–Robot Cooperation Scenarios"</a>. Semi-autonomous human–robot systems are no longer confined to research labs, but they are being piloted, trialled, and deployed in challenging application areas, such as space missions, nuclear remote handling, disaster response, and as assistive technologies. Evaluating these systems demands more than traditional user studies; it requires a deployment-level approach that evolves alongside system maturity. As autonomy becomes more dynamic and contexts more complex, evaluation methods must adapt to reflect not only technical performance, but also human experience, operational fit, and ethical acceptability across the Technology Readiness Level (TRL) spectrum. This chapter outlines a Deployment-Level Evaluation (DLE) framework for evaluating semi-autonomous systems designed to function in challenging environments. We propose a structured evaluation approach grounded with representative use cases in Mars mission tele-operation, healthcare, assistive robotics, nuclear remote handling, and disaster response, organized according to deployment levels mapped to TRLs. Elsevier, 2026 <em>(in press)</em>.</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Comprehensive Robotics for Extreme and Challenging Environments (1st edition)</strong></dt><dd>M. Chiou, A. Kucukyilmaz, M. Kyrarini, B. Varga, H. Georgiou (in chapter) <br /><a href="#">"Robot Autonomy for Seamless Human-Robot Teaming in Extreme and Challenging Environments: Capabilities, Challenges, and Directions"</a>. Human-Robot Teaming (HRT) in extreme and challenging environments, such as disaster response, monitoring and maintaining critical infrastructure, and emergency healthcare, requires advanced AI and autonomous capabilities that can integrate seamlessly with human teammates. This chapter examines the robot AI competencies needed for effective HRT in challenging environments and their interplay. We identify the AI capabilities and structure our discussion around three core competencies inspired by research in human teams: communication, coordination, and adaptability. Furthermore, drawing from case studies and research in domains such as disaster response, cooperative dual-task operations, and emergency healthcare, we highlight three significant challenges: integrating autonomous capabilities into the HRT as a coherent socio-technical system; evaluating these capabilities at the system level; and ensuring their relevance to real-world operational needs. Ultimately, this chapter aims to be a functional and conceptual map to guide the community in identifying research gaps and priorities for HRTs in challenging environments. Elsevier, 2026 <em>(in press)</em>.</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Machine Learning: A Bayesian and Optimization Perspective (1st edition)</strong></dt><dd>S. Theodoridis. <a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-801522-3.09993-6" target="_blank">Book published by Elsevier</a> This book gives a unifying perspective on machine learning by covering both probabilistic and deterministic approaches, together with the Bayesian inference approach. The material presents the major machine learning methods as they have been developed in different disciplines, such as statistics, statistical and adaptive signal processing and computer science. It builds carefully from the basic classical methods to the most recent trends, making the text suitable for different courses: pattern recognition, statistical/adaptive signal processing, statistical/Bayesian learning, as well as short courses on sparse modeling, deep learning, and probabilistic graphical models. (Harris Georgiou: acknowledged for contribution/proof-reading) Elsevier, 1st/edition, ISBN:978-0128015223, 10-Apr-2015. [UoA/S.Theodoridis: <a href="http://cgi.di.uoa.gr/~stheodor/books.html" target="_blank">book's homepage</a> ]</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Transforming Clothing Production into a demand-driven, knowledge-based, high-tech industry - The <a href="http://www.leapfrog-eu.org/LeapfrogIP/main.asp" target="_blank">Leapfrog</a> paradigm</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou, G. Kartsounis (members of the team of AUA, subcontractor to Hohenstein Institute, contributing authors). <a href="https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-1-84882-608-3" target="_blank">Book published by Springer</a>, regarding advances in nanotechnology and innovative polymeric materials, flexible robotics and innovative joining techniques, 3D CAD and Collaborative Virtual Prototyping, knowledge networking of textile and garment organizations. The book is a collection of short papers from prominent researchers involved with the LEAPFROG (Leadership for European Apparel Production From Research along Original Guidelines) initiative. LEAPFROG proposes a revolutionary industrial paradigm based on research results in scientific-technological fields, outlining key developments in all of the above areas, covering both technological and business aspects. It is an excellent reference for decision makers, managers, scientists and practitioners in the textile and clothing sectors, as well as academics and postgraduate students across a range of disciplines. (results from: LEAPFROG-IP, 6th Framework, FP6-2003-NMP-NI-3, Contract No: 515810). Springer, 1st/edition, ISBN:978-1-84882-607-6, 29-Sept-2009. [download: <a href="https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/bfm:978-1-84882-608-3/1" target="_blank">preface/TOC (pdf)</a> from Springer.com]</dd></dl><dl><dt><strong>Pattern Recognition (4th edition)</strong></dt><dd>S. Theodoridis, C. Koutroumbas. <a href="http://www.elsevierdirect.com/product.jsp?isbn=9781597492720" target="_blank">Book published by Academic Press</a>, a classic textbook covering classical and current theory and practice, of supervised, unsupervised and semi-supervised pattern recognition, to build a complete background for professionals and students of engineering. The authors, leading experts in the field of pattern recognition, have provided an up-to-date, self-contained volume encapsulating this wide spectrum of information. The very latest topics are incorporated in this edition, including semi-supervised learning, combining clustering algorithms, and relevance feedback. (Harris Georgiou: acknowledged for contribution/proof-reading) Academic Press, 4th/edition, ISBN:978-1597492720, 04-Nov-2009. [UoA/S.Theodoridis: <a href="http://www.di.uoa.gr/~stpatrec" target="_blank">book's homepage</a> ]</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Algorithms for Medical Image Analysis – Part I: Applications Programming (in Greek)</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou. Book published by Arnaoutis Publ. (Oct. 2012). The book is the first part of a two-volume work on all the intermediate processing levels in Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD) or Automated Computer Diagnosis (ACD), focused primarily on the programming and development of relevant applications. It also covers all the necessary background theory and algorithms for Image Analysis and Medical Imaging, as well as Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning. All the material covered in this book is complete and independent, focusing on the characterization of ultrasonic images of human liver for diagnostic purposes, employing a wide variety of methodologies of statistical image analysis and Machine Learning. The same material has been used for lectures and tutorials in graduate (BSc) and post-graduate (MSc) level courses taught by the author for many years, in relation to Artificial Intelligence and Digital Imaging, as well as programming algorithms for Pattern Recognition. The book is accompanied by full source code (ANSI C/C++) of more than 12.000 lines and complete description of the implemented full applications that are presented therein. Arnaoutis Publ., ISBN: 978-9609764094, 19-Oct-2012. [ <a target="_blank" href="http://www.ekdoseis-arnaoutis.gr/panepistimiaka/algorithmoi-analysis-iatrikis-eikonas-tomos-a-detail">Publisher's homepage</a> ]</dd></dl>

<dl><dt><strong>Algorithms for Medical Image Analysis – Part II: Morphological and Texture Characterization via Machine Learning (in Greek)</strong></dt><dd>H. Georgiou. Book published by Arnaoutis Publ. (Oct. 2012). The book is the second part of a two-volume work on all the intermediate processing levels in Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD) or Automated Computer Diagnosis (ACD), focused primarily on the theoretical aspects of related algorithms and methodologies. The material covers a wide theoretical background regarding all the intermediate stages of Diagnostic Imaging, while at the same time focusing on specific techniques and experimental results on Image Analysis &amp; Medical Imaging and Pattern Recognition. All the material covered in this book is complete and independent, focusing on the characterization of tumorous masses in mammographic images of human breast for diagnostic purposes, employing a wide variety of methodologies of statistical image analysis and Machine Learning. The same material has been used for lectures and tutorials in graduate (BSc) and post-graduate (MSc) level courses taught by the author for many years, in relation to Machine Learning and Digital Imaging, as well as programming algorithms for Pattern Recognition. It includes a very extended list of more than 860 relevant bibliographic references and it can be used as a valuable textbook for every new student, researcher and teacher in these topics. Arnaoutis Publ., ISBN: 978-9609764100, 19-Oct-2012. [ <a target="_blank" href="http://www.ekdoseis-arnaoutis.gr/panepistimiaka/algorithmoi-analysis-iatrikis-eikonas-tomos-b-detail">Publisher's homepage</a> ]</dd></dl>
