# Works / R&D projects
<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://www.faster-project.eu/">FASTER</a>: "First responder Advanced technologies for Safe and efficienT Emergency Response" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/222619/factsheet/en" target="_blank">n.833507</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
The term first responders usually refers to law enforcement, fire, and emergency medical personnel. These responders, however, are not the only assets that may be required in the aftermath of a strike on the homeland. In contrast, the more appropriate term, emergency responders, comprises all personnel within a community that might be needed in the event of a natural or technological (man-made) disaster or terrorist incident. These responders might include hazardous materials response teams, urban search and rescue assets, community emergency response teams, anti-terrorism units, special weapons and tactics teams, bomb squads, emergency management officials, municipal agencies, and private organizations responsible for transportation, communications, medical services, public health, disaster assistance, public works, and construction. In addition, professional responders and volunteers, private nonprofit, nongovernmental groups (NGOs), such as the Red Cross, can also play an important role in emergency response. As a result, the tasks that a national emergency response system would be required to perform are more complex than simply aiding victims at the scene of a disaster, carried out by several kinds of professional users with different roles and expertise. Moreover, emergency preparedness and response lifecycle is a complex process that consists of the preparation, response, and recovery from a disaster, including planning, logistical support, maintenance and diagnostics, training, and management as well as supporting the actual activities at a disaster site and post-recovery after the incident.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, Crisis management</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">INGENIOUS</a>: "The First Responder (FR) of the Future: a Next Generation Integrated Toolkit (NGIT) for Collaborative Response, increasing protection and augmenting operational capacity" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/222613/factsheet/en" target="_blank">n.833435</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
Today’s First Responders (FR) are using technology of the past. During their primary mission of saving lives and preserving
society’s safety and security, FRs face a multitude of challenges. In both small scale emergencies and large scale disasters,
they often deal with life-threatening situations, hazardous environments, uncharted surroundings and limited awareness.
Threats and hazards evolve rapidly, crossing municipalities, regions and nations with speed and ease. Armouring public
safety services with all the tools that modern technology has to offer is critical. Such tools holistically enhance their
protection and augment their operational capacities, assisting them in saving lives as well as ensuring their safe return from
the disaster scene. INGENIOUS will develop, integrate, test, deploy and validate a Next Generation Integrated Toolkit
(NGIT) for Collaborative Response, which ensures high level of Protection & Augmented Operational Capacity to respond to
the disaster scene. This will comprise a multitude of the tools and services required: 1) for enabling protection of the FRs
with respect to their health, safety and security; 2) for enhancing their operational capacities by offering them with means to
conduct various response tasks and missions boosted with autonomy, automation, precise positioning, optimal utilisation of
available resources and upgraded awareness and sense-making; 3) for allowing shared response across FR teams and
disciplines by augmenting their field of view, information sharing and communications between teams and with victims. The
NGIT armours the FRs at all fronts. The NGIT will be provided at the service of the FRs for extensive testing and validation
in the framework of a rich Training, Testing and Validation Programme – of Lab Tests (LSTs), Small-Scale Field Tests
(SSTs) and Full-Scale Field Validations (FSXs) – towards powering the FR of the future being fully aware, fully connected
and fully integrated.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, Crisis management</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">CURSOR</a>: "Coordinated Use of miniaturized Robotic equipment and advanced Sensors for search and rescue OpeRations" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/222585/factsheet/en" target="_blank">n.832790</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
The CURSOR proposal aims at developing new and innovative ways of detecting victims under debris. This includes the
coordinated use of miniaturized robotic equipment and advanced sensors for achieving
significant improvements in search and rescue operations with respect to (a) the time used to detect trapped victims after a
building structure has collapsed, and (b) an informed and accelerated decisionmaking
by first responders during rescue operations allowing for the deployment of expert personnel and, in particular for operations
in hazardous environments, suitable equipment at prioritized locations.
CURSOR is proposing a system consisting of several integrated technological components. It includes Unmanned Aerial
Vehicles (UAVs) for command & control, 3D modelling and transportation of disposable miniaturized robots, that are
equipped with advanced sensors for the sensitive detection of volatile chemical signatures of human beings. Information and
data collected are transferred in real time to a handheld device operated by first responders at the disaster site.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, Crisis management</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://www.intrepid-project.eu/">INTREPID</a>: "Intelligent Toolkit for Reconnaissance and assessmEnt in Perilous Incidents" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/883345" target="_blank">n.883345</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
Many challenges arise in the immediate aftermath of a natural or man-made disaster. First responders must deal with pressing and dramatic challenges in a chaotic, dynamic, and dangerous environment while locating and rescuing victims and neutralising threats. They must make urgent decisions, but the zone can be large, complex, hostile, with many areas unsafe to explore. The lack of reliable information and the deep uncertainty present serious obstacles to a quick and effective response.
INTREPID aims to create a unique platform, seamlessly integrating Intelligence Amplification and eXtended Reality concepts, with unprecedented Smart Cybernetic Assistants and innovative deep indoor Networking and Positioning capabilities, to improve and accelerate the exploration and assessment of disaster zones. The project will validate its effectiveness, in iterative and complementary pilots, to support the rescue operations in areas that are complex or dangerous to explore.
Always first on scene, first responders will be able to immediately start operations without having to wait for specialized teams or for the zone to be fully secured. When these teams arrive, first responders have already used INTREPID to provide them with reliable information and effective assistance. The result is an immediate and targeted response that will allow faster, more effective and safer operations.
The consortium consists of world-class research centres and SMEs, coordinated by an industrial with a leading position in the security market. It will follow a user-centric methodology involving many first responders, and an international Advisory Board and Open User Group ensuring diversity. Social, ethical and legal constraints will be carefully considered during the project’s lifetime.
The project will design and implement a training curriculum and an innovative evaluation framework along with an ambitious communication and dissemination plan, preparing the ground for successful exploitation.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, Crisis management</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101017558">ALAMEDA</a>: "Bridging the Early Diagnosis and Treatment Gap of Brain Diseases via Smart, Connected, Proactive and Evidence-based Technological Interventions" (<a href="#" target="_blank">n.101017558</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
ALAMEDA acknowledges that the care of patients with brain disorders is complex and manifestations of certain diseases could worsen over time and seriously impair the quality of life of patients and their care-givers. Regular rehabilitation treatment assessments are essential to ensure that medical interventions are impactful or that relapse incidents are not evident. Different brain diseases pose different challenges on the clinicians and the interventions they prescribe. Patients respond differently to similar medication or rehabilitation protocols. Our vision in ALAMEDA is to research and prototype the next generation of personalized AI healthcare support systems for people with brain diseases and disorders, specifically focusing on the needs of Parkinson’s, MS and Stroke (PMSS) patients’ rehabilitation treatments. ALAMEDA innovations are anchored at the integration of lifestyle retrospective data as well as new streams of patient monitoring data, via new methods during every-day activities, including sleep behaviour, deploying advanced data analytics and AI recommendation services. The success of such applications will provide clinicians with the opportunity to modify interventions based on personalized data recordings, that could include both pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapeutic options, such as exercise regimens.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Parkinson, Multiple Sklerosis, Stroke, Brain diagnostics.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">FIBSUN</a>: "Novel fibre value chains and ecosystem services from sustainable feedstocks" (<a href="#" target="_blank">n.101112318</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
FIBSUN's ultimate goal is to support the development of resilient and competitive production systems and enhanced provision of ecosystem services (ES) from degraded and marginal soils, by facilitating sustainable fibre value chains in European industries, via a series of five Pilot Validation Trials (PVT).</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: ecosystem, feedstock, sustainability.</dt><dd></dd></dl>
</dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://halman-project.eu/">HAL-Man</a>: "Sustainable Hydrogen and Aluminothermic Reduction Process for Manganese, its Alloys and Critical Raw Materials Production" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101091936" target="_blank">n.101091936</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
HAL-Man is aiming at the development and demonstration of innovative data-driven optimized processes for environmentally sound and commercially viable, for metallurgy products via viable and efficient methods.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: metallurgy, materials engineering, process optimization, sustainability.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://ecorefibre.eu/">EcoReFibre</a>: "Ecological Solutions for Recovery of Secondary Raw Materials from Post-consumer Fibreboards" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101057473" target="_blank">n.101057473</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
HAL-Man is aiming at the development and demonstration of innovative data-driven optimized processes for environmentally sound and commercially viable recycling of end-of-life fibreboards, which currently have no commercially viable recycling methods.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: ecosystem, fibreboards, materials engineering, sustainability.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">S3food/DNAblockchain</a>: "DNA digitization: olive oil authenticity and traceability from field to bottle – DNAblockchain" (<a href="#" target="_blank">n.824769/VV106/2021</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
S3food/DNAblockchain is aiming at the development of Machine Learning technologies for the coding, automated recognition and genetic discrimination of olive crops and oils based on variety and location of origin.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: blockchain, genetics, sustainability.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">WaterUnderground</a>: "Novel IoT/Edge/Cloud framework for ground water monitoring and predictive analytics" (<a href="#" target="_blank">n.(...)</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
WaterUnderground is a R&amp;D project for Internet-of-Things (IoT) and edge/cloud computing platforms, aiming at the development of Machine Learning and Signal Processing technologies for the monitoring and data analysis of underground water reservoirs. The developed prototype achieved the top 4th place in Europe in IBM’s innovation challenge “Call for Code” in the category “Climate Change” in 2020 (patent pending).</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: ecosystem, groundwater, predictive analytics, IoT, edge computing, sustainability.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">SYNERGISE</a>: "A novel integrated SYstem of Systems streNgthening tEchnical and logistical capacities to ensure better Response to emerGencies by synergIStically addrEssing FRs capability gaps" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101121321" target="_blank">n.101121321</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
SYNERGISE will design, develop, integrate, deploy, test, validate and demonstrate a Novel Integrated Toolkit for Collaborative Response and Enhanced Situational Awareness (NIT-CRES), at the service of response agencies which ensures an upgrade to managing of complex incidents. This will comprise a multitude of tools and services required for: 1) boosting situational awareness and sense-making by offering them the means to autonomously and synergistically perform indoor and outdoor exploration of incident sites towards victim identification whilst receiving at all times information about responders’ position and vitals as well as analyses of passive and active threats and hazards at the area of operations and 2) upgrading collaborative response and incident as well resources management by continuously sharing and updating the common operational picture across deployed teams, among the chain of command and between participating agencies. The NIT-CRES armors the FRs at all fronts by delivering novel, affordable, accepted, and customized response tools and services as part of their operational assets. Notably, the toolkit abides to privacy, ethical, security and legal constraints by design, considers an increased degree of inclusiveness for its operators and its set-up facilitates collaborative response addressing standard operating procedures. The NIT-CRES will be provided at the service of the search and rescue personnel, fire brigades, emergency medical, police and civil protection agencies for extensive testing, training and validation (at component and Toolkit levels) in the framework of a rich Integration, Testing and Validation Activities Programme – of Round Tables (RTs), Collaborative Lab Tests (CLTs), Technical Integration Workshop (TIWS), Component Field Tests (CFTs) and System Field Tests (SFTs) – towards empowering collaborative response and handling of complex incidents to its fullest.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, crisis management, autonomous swarm of robots, indoor localisation, vitals monitoring, augmented reality, human-machine teaming.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">CARMA</a>: "Collaborative Autonomous Robots for eMergency Assistance" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101168355" target="_blank">n.101168355</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
CARMA aims to co-create, through a user-centred iterative methodology involving a complementary set of end-users and SSH experts, a groundbreaking, modular and intuitive platform offering a complementary set of semi-autonomous and autonomous UGVs capable of working in symbiosis with humans to support and supplement first responders and assist citizen in a wide range of disaster situations, including those with very low visibility.
<br />
The project will build on the most advanced research results, including those from the INTREPID project, in the field of disaster robotics making them autonomous thanks to novel 3D radar-based environment mapping and analysis combined with Artificial Intelligence for enhanced path and mission planning as well as victim and threat detection. Symbiotic operations and natural robot/human interaction will be made possible by exploiting Generative Adversarial Networks for collaborative tasks, Natural Language Processing, and eXtended Reality technologies.
<br />
The project will evaluate the effectiveness and acceptance of the proposed platform in the frame of four ambitious pilots in complementary operational environments. 
<br />
Coordinated by a large European industrial leader in the crisis management market, the consortium includes world-class research centres in the domain of AI and Social Robotics, robotics manufacturers, professional and volunteer first responders, as well as local authorities. It is complemented by an international Advisory Board and an Open Community to ensure openness and diversity. Social, ethical and legal constraints will be carefully considered during the project’s lifetime. 
<br />
In order to prepare the ground for broad adoption and successful exploitation of the project’s results, CARMA will implement an ambitious communication and dissemination plan, an engaging training curriculum, and produce a white book proposing recommendations for doctrine changes to involve the proposed solution in crisis management operations.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, crisis management, autonomous swarm of robots, indoor localisation, autonomous robots, augmented reality, human-machine teaming.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">6G-VERSUS</a>: "Sustainable 6G for sustainable vertical applications" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101192633" target="_blank">n.101192633</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
The journey towards tangible sustainability outcomes necessitates a fusion of technological advancements with strategic experimentation. In this pursuit, SUSTAIN-6G emerges as a pioneering initiative, leveraging cutting-edge 6G research facilities across Europe to explore the frontiers of sustainable technology. 
<br/>Through meticulously designed trials and pilots, SUSTAIN-6G addresses pressing challenges in 5 environmentally conscious vertical industries. In this regard, SUSTAIN-6G introduces a novel methodology, transforming existing use cases into 6G applications, comprising Vertical App (V-App), Network App (N-App), and AI-assisted App (AI-App). This triadic structure optimizes the data and control planes of 6G systems, facilitating seamless information flow and decisionmaking processes. With the support of six 6G platforms spanning across Europe, SUSTAIN-6G aims to demonstrate the profound sustainable, economic and societal impact of 6G technology, propelling towards a more sustainable and prosperous society.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Search &amp; Rescue operations, crisis management, field communications, 6G, sustainability, environmentally conscious verticals, AI, 6G-enabled applications.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://luminous-horizon.eu">LUMINOUS</a>: "Language Augmentation for Humanverse" (<a href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/101135724" target="_blank">n.101135724</a>)</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>
LUMINOUS aims at the creation of the next generation of Language Augmented XR systems, where natural language-based communication and Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLM) enable adaptation to individual, not predefined user needs and unseen environments. This will enable future XR users to interact fluently with their environment, while having instant access to constantly updated global as well as domain- specific knowledge sources to accomplish novel tasks. We aim to exploit MLLMs injected with domain specific knowledge for describing novel tasks on user demand. These are then communicated through a speech interface and/or a task adaptable avatar (e.g. coach/teacher) in terms of different visual aids and procedural steps for the accomplishment of the task. Language driven specification of the style, facial expressions, and specific attitudes of virtual avatars will facilitate generalisable and situation-aware communication in multiple use cases and different sectors. LLMs will benefit in parallel in identifying new objects that were not part of their training data and then describing them in a way that they become visually recognizable. Our results will be prototyped and tested in three pilots, focussing on neurorehabilitation (support of stroke patients with language impairments), immersive industrial safety training, and 3D architectural design review. A consortium of six leading R&D institutes experts in six different disciplines (AI, Augmented Vision, NLP, Computer Graphics, Neurorehabilitation, Ethics) will follow a challenging workplan, aiming to bring about a new era at the crossroads of two of the most promising current technological developments (LLM/AI and XR), made in Europe.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: Extended Reality, Artificial Intelligence, Zero-shot Learning, Computer Vision, Situational Awareness, Natural Language Processing, Large Language Models, Digital Health.</dt><dd></dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/213164_en.html">Big Data for Mobility Tracking Knowledge Extraction in Urban Areas (Track &amp; Know)</a></h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd><a target="_blank" href="https://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/213164_en.html">"Track &amp; Know (T&amp;K) - Big Data for Mobility Tracking Knowledge Extraction in Urban Areas"</a> addresses the topic “ICT-16-2017 / Big data PPP” exploring the research addressing main technology challenges of the data economy in the context of Big data. T&amp;K will research, develop and exploit a new software framework that aims at increasing the efficiency of Big Data applications in the transport, mobility, motor insurance and health sectors. Stemming from industrial cases, T&amp;K will develop user friendly toolboxes that will be readily applicable in the addressed markets, and will be also investigated in additional domains through liaison activities with running ICT-15 Lighthouse projects. T&amp;K integrates multidisciplinary research teams from Mobility Data management, Complex Event Recognition, Geospatial Modelling, Complex Network Analysis, Transportation Engineering and Visual Analytics to develop new models and applications. T&amp;K recognizes that Big Data penetration is not adequately developed in niche markets outside the traditional verticals (e.g. Finance) and so the T&amp;K Toolboxes will be demonstrated in three real-world Pilots using datasets from niche market scenarios to validate efficiency improvements. Performance and impact benchmarks are elaborated and will be documented during pilots deployment. The T&amp;K consortium is composed by complementary partners, coming from addressed research, technological and commercial domains, that have a proven track record of high quality research capacity. Thus, the carefully structured workplan, embodies a holistic approach towards meeting the T&amp;K objectives and delivering market-relevant outcomes of significant exploitation potential.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: urban flows, mobility patterns, trajectory prediction, data analytics</dt></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/199835_en.html">Big Data Analytics for Time Critical Mobility Forecasting (datACRON)</a></h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd><a target="_blank" href="http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/199835_en.html">datACRON</a> (Big Data Analytics for Time Critical Mobility Forecasting) is a research and innovation collaborative project introducing novel methods for threat and abnormal activity detection in very large fleets of moving entities spread across large geographical areas.Specifically, datACRON aims to develop novel methods for real-time detection and prediction of trajectories and important events related to moving entities, together with advanced visual analytics methods, over multiple heterogeneous, voluminous, fluctuating, and noisy data streams from moving entities, correlating them with archived data expressing, among others, entities’ characteristics, geographical information, mobility patterns, regulations and intentional data (e.g. planned routes), in a timely manner. Technological developments are validated and evaluated in user-defined challenges focusing on increasing the safety, efficiency and economy of operations concerning moving entities in the Air-Traffic Management and Maritime domains.
The datACRON project brings together partners from academia and industry to develop the aforementioned novel methods, together with user and data-provision partners from the two domains, in close relation to user-interest groups, focusing on real-life, industrial and user-defined challenges concerning operations (e.g. surveillance, forecasting of trajectories, characterization, etc.) regarding moving entities in sea and air.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: air traffic control, maritime surveillance, trajectory prediction, data analytics</dt></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/203260_en.html">Smart Toolbox for Engaging Citizens into a People-Centric Observation Web (SCENT)</a></h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd><a target="_blank" href="http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/203260_en.html">SCENT</a> (Smart Toolbox for Engaging Citizens into a People-Centric Observation Web) addresses the topic “SC5-17-2015 - Demonstrating the concept of 'Citizen Observatories'” in the domain of civil protection for flood prevention and predictive analytics. Whilst citizen participation in environmental policy making is still in its infancy, there are signs of a growing level of interest. The majority of citizens, though, both as individuals and as groups often feel disengaged from influencing environmental policies. They also remain unaware of publicly available information, such as the GEOSS or Copernicus initiatives. The SCENT project will alleviate this barrier. It will enable citizens to become the ‘eyes’ of the policy makers by monitoring land-cover/use changes in their everyday activities. This is done through a constellation of smart collaborative technologies delivered by the SCENT toolbox in TRLs 6-8: i) low-cost and portable data collection tools, ii) an innovative crowd-sourcing platform, iii) serious gaming applications for a large-scale image collection and semantic annotation, iv) a powerful machine-learning based intelligence engine for image and text classification, v) an authoring tool for an easy customization by policy makers, vi) numerical models for mapping land-cover changes to quantifiable impact on flood risks and vii) a harmonization platform, consolidating data and adding it to GEOSS and national repositories as OGC-based observations. SCENT will be evaluated in two large scale demonstrations in Kifisos Attica and Danube Delta. Our consortium covers the complete stakeholder chain: industries in machine learning (IBM), SMEs in crowd-sourcing (U-Hopper), gaming (Xteam) and awareness raising (Carr), leading research institutes with expertise in hydrodynamic modelling (UNESCO-IHE), data harmonization and authoring tools (ICCS) and environmental monitoring (DDNI), NGOs at the pilot sites (HRTA, SOR) and policy makers/public bodies (Region of Attica). The SCENT initiative will go beyond the current project and form a European-wide citizen movement, created and fostered by the SCENT stakeholders, that will ensure its sustainability and its complementarity with existing citizen partnerships.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: civil protection, flood prevention, citizen observatories, data analytics</dt></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/204500_en.html">Data-Driven Aircraft Trajectory Prediction Research (DART)</a></h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd><a target="_blank" href="http://cordis.europa.eu/project/rcn/204500_en.html">DART</a> (Data-driven AiRcraft Trajectory prediction research) addresses the topic “ER-02-2015 - Data Science in ATM” exploring the applicability of data science and complexity science techniques to the ATM domain. DART will deliver understanding on the suitability of applying big data techniques for predicting multiple correlated aircraft trajectories based on data-driven models and accounting for ATM network complexity effects. 
DART will blend computer science non-ATM specific expertise from <strong>University of Piraeus Research Center (UPRC, Greece)</strong> and <strong>Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur Förderung der angewandten Forschung e.V. (FRHF, Germany)</strong> and ATM state of the art and business needs knowledge from <strong>Centro de Referencia de Investigación, Desarrollo e Innovación (CRIDA, Spain)</strong> and <strong>Boeing Research and Technology Europe (BR&T-E, Spain)</strong> in a two years long effort.
Data Science is being pervasively applied to many businesses today has even make room for provoking proposals like the now famous form Anderson, Chris: "The end of theory: The Data Deluge Makes the Scientific Method Obsolete." Wired magazine 16.7 (2008): 16-07. DART aims to avoid this hype and present to the ATM community an understanding on what can be achieved today in trajectory prediction using data-driven models.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: air traffic control, trajectory prediction, data analytics</dt></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="http://www.adidas-group.com/en/group/stories-copy/specialty/farewell-recycling-infinity-cycling/">Sport Infinity (WRAP)</a>: "The next-gen sport products, custom-made, recycled."</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>The goal of the <a target="_blank" href="http://www.adidas-group.com/en/group/stories-copy/specialty/farewell-recycling-infinity-cycling/">Sport Infinity project</a> is the creation of a new generation of custom-made recyclable sport products, including shin guards, shoes and soccer balls. The WRAP consortium includes ten top-level industry partners and the first prototypes are currently under development. Our involvement (Hypercliq) is focused on the design and implementation of decision-support system for "smart" knowledge management and CAD optimization via AI algorithms and Machine Learning modules.</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: textiles, materials, CAD, data mining </dt></dl>

<h4><a href="#" target="_blank">ASSURANCE</a>: "Distributed Sparse Models for Machine Learning in Telecommunications"</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>The purpose of this research proposal is to develop models as well as training strategies and algorithms for ML, that apply both to classification as well as to regression in a unified way. Thus, although our emphasis is on Signal Processing, the algorithms to be developed can be used in any related ML task. Our approach will incorporate, in the stage of training, all the previously mentioned characteristics that a modern ML system is required to possess, by more carefully "listening" on how human intelligence operates. More specifically, our methodology and algorithmic framework will be developed so that:<br /> a) to be online and time <i>adaptive</i>, in order to be able to track variations of the statistics of the environment,<br /> b) to incorporate a-priori knowledge in the form of <i>constraints</i>,<br /> c) to operate in a <i>distributed</i> learning environment, where a number of nodes exchange information,<br /> d) to be <i>sparsity-aware</i> with respect to the structure of the target system's model and be able to incorporate this information in an efficient way,<br /> e) to be able to accommodate <i>non-linear</i> models in a computationally efficient manner.<br /> Non-linearity is also another feature of the involved processing in the human brain. Controlled non-linearity can drastically improve performance in many practical systems, at the expense of higher computational complexity.</dd></dl><dl><dt><strong>Keywords:</strong> Machine learning, sparse models, distributed systems, telecommunications</dt><dd></dd></dl><dl><dt><strong><br />Material and Results:</strong></dt><dd><br />Presentations and work conducted by AUA (Harris Georgiou): <br /><ol><br />
<li><strong>Brain Signals &amp; Sparsity: Update on current state-of-the-art of EEG&amp; fMRI processing with sparsity-aware methods</strong> (Athens, GREECE, Feb.2013). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59608" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59608</a> [download: <a href="../docs/fmri-sparse/intro_sparse-EEG-fMRI_v2_prot.pdf" target="_blank">pdf</a>]</li>
</ol></dd></dl><dl><dt></dt><dd>Technical reports co-authored by CTI/UoA (Harris Georgiou): <br />
<ul><br />
<li>...</li>
</ul>
</dd></dl><dl><dt><strong><br />Software and Datasets:</strong></dt><dd><br />There are several currently running code &amp; data development side-projects linked with the main ASSURANCE project. These are some of the resources I have personally developed and can publish here as-is (read the licensing info included). Please note that these resources are under continuous development and updates (beta versions), so some features may not yet be fully implemented or stable.<br />
<ul><br />
<li><a href="#"><strong>fMRI-Sparse toolbox (Matlab)</strong></a>: Currently under development, a minimalistic collection of low-level data handling (matrix) functions for fMRI processing, block-based &amp; event-based test pattern series, as well as "realistic" simulated fMRI data series for algorithm benchmarking, template scripts for various fMRI decomposition methods (GLM, PCA, ICA, BP, ...), analysis of components &amp; activation maps, etc. Some features are not yet fully implemented.</li>
</ul>
</dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="http://www.medsip.gr/">MedSIP</a>: "Digital mammographic image database for medicine and machine learning research"</h4>
<dl> <dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>The goal of the <a target="_blank" href="http://www.medsip.gr/">MedSIP (Medical Signal &amp; Image Processing) project</a> is the creation of a prototype database of high-resolution digital mammographic images, as well as the development of a web portal for the Internet, to provide public access to the database for everyone. This study covers an important need on several research areas, related to medical databases for breast imaging, in terms of quality and specialization, as well as the public availability. Similar public-access breast imaging databases include either low-quality digitized (from film) images or proprietary data formats that make their use cumbersome and limited in scope. In this database, each image is accompanied with a full clinical evaluation record and fully annotated findings (calcifications, masses, asymmetries, etc). These images, as well as the annotation data, can be used by researchers as raw material for studies related to medical imaging and machine learning (automated detection/diagnosis) in mammography. The web portal and the public access to this mammographic database constitute perhaps the first such attempt in Greece for the creation of high-quality research material for future studies in these areas. The project was originally funded by the <a target="_blank" href="http://www.latsis-foundation.org/en/1/homepage.html">J.S. Latsis Public Benefit Foundation</a> (2010).<br /></dd></dl> <dl><dt><strong>Keywords:</strong> mammography, breast imaging, automated diagnosis, image processing, medical imaging, x-ray, dosimetry, automated control<br /></dt><dd> </dd></dl> <dl><dt><strong><br />Material and Results:</strong></dt> <dd><br />Presentations and dissemination work: 
<ol>
<li>Latsis Foundation – Symposium for the presentation of funded research works for 2010 (5/5/2011)<br /> 
<a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59604" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59604</a></li>
<li>37th Annual Greek Medical Conference 2011 (EPIS-37), Athens, Greece, 17-21st May 2011</li>
</ol></dd></dl>

<h4><a href="http://www.leapfrog-eu.org/LeapfrogIP/main.asp" target="_blank">Leapfrog-IP</a>: "Image Analysis Techniques for Material Characterization and Simulation"</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>Image Analysis Techniques for Material Characterization and Simulation (Leapfrog–IP project, EC contract No. 515810 - NMP2-CT-2005-515810), R&amp;D project for image analysis and characterization for clothing industry applications (2006-2007). The LEAPFROG Integrated Project attempts to modernise and ultimately transform the clothing sector into a demand-driven, knowledge-based, high-tech industry by exploitation of recent advances in a broad area of scientific-technological fields ranging from: nanotechnology and polymeric material science, robotics and innovative joining techniques, 3D computer graphics and animation, e-business and management research, etc.</dd></dl><dl><dt><strong>Keywords:</strong> shape analysis, morphological features, image processing</dt><dd></dd></dl><dl><dt><strong><br />Material and Results:</strong></dt><dd><br />Presentations and work conducted by AUA (Harris Georgiou): <br /><ol><br />
<li>Leapfrog-IP, Workpackage-4: <strong>Drape Image Processing: Progress report summary on image pre-processing, segmentation and further stages</strong> (Athens, GREECE, 18th June 2007). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59616" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59616</a> [download: <a href="../docs/leapfrog/AUA-progress1-Jun07.pdf" target="_blank">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>Leapfrog-IP, Workpackage-4: <strong>Drape Image Processing: Progress report summary 2 on shape features, preliminary analysis and further stages</strong> (Athens, GREECE, 31st October 2007). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59617" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59617</a> [download: <a href="../docs/leapfrog/AUA-progress2-Oct07.pdf" target="_blank">pdf</a>]</li>
</ol></dd></dl><dl><dt></dt><dd>Technical reports co-authored by NKUA/UoA (Harris Georgiou): <br />
<ul><br />
<li>Leapfrog-IP, Workpackage-4: <strong>Results of feasibility study for classification of fabrics and quick automatic estimation of their simulation parameters based on image analysis</strong> (deliverable report D4.19, draft/unofficial version, 31-Jan-2008). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59620" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59620</a> [download: <a href="../docs/leapfrog/AUA-Imanal-Feasibility.pdf" target="_blank">pdf</a>]</li>
</ul>
</dd></dl><dl><dt><strong><br />Book publications:</strong></dt><dd><br />Transforming Clothing Production into a demand-driven, knowledge-based, high-tech industry - The <a href="http://www.leapfrog-eu.org/LeapfrogIP/main.asp" target="_blank">Leapfrog</a> paradigm <br />
<ul><br />
<li>H. Georgiou, G. Kartsounis (members of the team of AUA, subcontractor to Hohenstein Institute, contributing authors). <a href="http://www.springerlink.com/content/978-1-84882-607-6" target="_blank">Book published by Springer</a>, regarding advances in nanotechnology and innovative polymeric materials, flexible robotics and innovative joining techniques, 3D CAD and Collaborative Virtual Prototyping, knowledge networking of textile and garment organisations. The book is a collection of short papers from prominent researchers involved with the LEAPFROG (Leadership for European Apparel Production From Research along Original Guidelines) initiative. LEAPFROG proposes a revolutionary industrial paradigm based on research results in scientific-technological fields, outlining key developments in all of the above areas, covering both technological and business aspects. It is an excellent reference for decision makers, managers, scientists and practitioners in the textile and clothing sectors, as well as academics and postgraduate students across a range of disciplines. (results from: LEAPFROG-IP, 6th Framework, FP6-2003-NMP-NI-3, Contract No: 515810). Springer, 1st/edition, ISBN:978-1848826076, 29-Sept-2009. [download: <a href="http://www.springerlink.com/content/q68200/front-matter.pdf" target="_blank">preface/TOC (pdf)</a> from Springer.com]</li>
</ul>
</dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="http://www.i-imas.ucl.ac.uk">I-ImaS</a>: "Intelligent Imaging Sensors for Industry, Health and Security"</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>The I-ImaS project aimed at the development of a new generation of sensors that will create a break-through in the diagnostic quality of X-ray images in health, industry and security. The new sensors will incorporate adaptive imaging technology. This allows optimization of the recorded information while at the same time minimizing the radiation dose or duration of the examination - in practice the ideal imaging system. I-ImaS was a three-year-plus project (Mar.2004-May.2007), extended by two months for a total of 38 months, funded by the European Commission under the Sixth Framework Programme, Priority 3 NMP "New generation of sensors, actuators and systems for health, safety and security of people and environment" (NMP2-CT-2003-505593).</dd></dl><dl><dt><strong>Keywords:</strong> textural features, image processing, medical imaging, x-ray, dosimetry, automated control</dt><dd></dd></dl><dl><dt><strong><br />Material and Results:</strong></dt><dd><br />Presentations and work conducted by CTI/UoA (Harris Georgiou): <br /><ol><br />
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Update on current progress and preliminary results for the on-chip processing</strong> (Amsterdam, NETHERLANDS, 26th–27th May 2004). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59509" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59509</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/01_wp3_ams04.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Update on current progress and report for deliverable D.8: "Translating information signatures to a sequence of well-defined processing functions"</strong> (London, UK, 12th–13th October 2004). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59510" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59510</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/02_wp3_lond04.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Update on current progress and report for deliverable D.8: "Translating information signatures to a sequence of well-defined processing functions"</strong> (Oslo, NORWAY, 14th–15th February 2005). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59513" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59513</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/03_wp3_oslo05.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Enhancements to the image pre-filtering and image restoration options, and preface to x-ray camera geometry</strong> (Athens, GREECE, 29th–30th September 2005). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59515" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59515</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/04_CTI_ath05.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Improved Adaptive Control by Anticipatory and Reinforcement-Learning options for the I-ImaS Controller Logic</strong> (Trieste, ITALY, 10th–11th January 2006). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59516" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59516</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/05_CTI_trie06.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Summary of patent-related issues regarding Image Analysis and Controller Logic</strong> (Ioannina, GREECE, 23rd–24th May 2006). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59519" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59519</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/06_CTI_ioa06.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Update on remaining issues regarding Image Analysis and Controller Logic</strong> (London, UK, 22nd–23rd November 2006). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59520" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59520</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/07_CTI_lond06.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Concluding remarks and future prospects for improvements</strong> (London, UK, 21st–22nd May 2007). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59521" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59521</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/08_CTI_lond07.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
</ol></dd></dl><dl><dt></dt><dd>Technical reports co-authored by CTI/UoA (Harris Georgiou): <br />
<ul><br />
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>S. Theodoridis, D. Cavouras, H. Georgiou: Preliminary Analysis Report and Proposed Design</strong> (technical report, draft/unofficial version, 02-Mar-2004). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59541" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59541</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/I-ImaS_prelim_rep_final3.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Translating information signatures to a sequence of well-defined processing functions</strong> (deliverable report D.8, draft/unofficial version, 23-Feb-2005). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59542" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59542</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/I-ImaS_WP3_D8_Feb05_final.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>Different approaches to providing intelligence in the sensor/imaging system</strong> (deliverable report D.9, draft/unofficial version, 04-May-2005). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59543" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59543</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/I-ImaS_WP3_D9_Mar05_final.pdf">pdf</a>]</li>
<li>I-ImaS, Workpackage-3: <strong>RIEDS – Radiographic Imaging Evaluation and Documentation System</strong> (technical report, draft/unofficial version, 14-Mar-2008). <br /><a href="http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59544" target="_blank">http://dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.59544</a> [download: <a target="_blank" href="../docs/i-imas/RIEDS_v123_all.zip">zip</a>]</li>
</ul>
</dd></dl>

<h4><a target="_blank" href="#">MeDAS</a>: Results & Datasets</h4>
<dl><dt><strong>Description:</strong></dt><dd>(...)</dd></dl>
<dl><dt>Keywords: mammography, diagnostics, machine learning, image analysis</dt></dl>





